Did you think scripting YouTube videos
was going to be easy? Well, I did. I've
scripted over 1,000 YouTube [music]
videos and eventually generated millions
of views for my clients. But my gosh,
was it such a grind. I really wish I
could have done things smarter to speed
up results. So, to help make your
YouTube script writing journey 10 times
easier and make you more money from your
videos, here are 40 brutal truths about
writing YouTube scripts I wish I known a
lot sooner. Truth number one, when
viewers leave, they're not leaving
because your content is bad. They leave
because they see no reason to stay.
Maybe your story feels flat, your video
has no urgency, or they think they
already know what's coming next. And to
prevent this, you need tension. Tension
is when you introduce uncertainty about
what's going to happen next. Like when
you say in the business video, I
followed my mentor's advice and I lost
$100,000 in 3 months. This sentence
creates a gap in the viewer's head and
is so powerful. But once you create this
tension, make sure to not resolve it
immediately. Give it time to [music]
settle in the viewer's head. So truth
number one is master tension or lose
your viewers. To add tension, ask
yourself, what does the viewer miss out
when they stop watching right now? Then
build that into your script. Truth
number two, most creators think that the
first 10 seconds of their video is about
being flashy. But actually, the best
hooks quietly make you feel wrong.
Because when you challenge your
viewers's assumptions, you create some
kind of a mental mismatch in their
[music] brain. This is called cognitive
dissonance, and it's like having a
mental itch. The viewer feels like they
just have to scratch it. This is why
when you say, "You've been wrong doing
this the entire time, it instantly makes
the viewer question their current
approach. And because we humans hate
being wrong more than we love being
right, viewers end up wanting to defend
their ego. So, they watch longer and
they can't leave until they know what's
missing. And by the time they realize
they've been overlooking something,
they're already hooked. So truth number
two is grab attention by challenging the
viewer's beliefs. Identify what they're
doing dayto-day that is completely
wrong. Then open by suggesting why what
they're doing is flawed and incomplete
and then suggest an alternative
approach. This completely rewires the
viewer's brain. Truth number three. I'm
sure you've heard of the copyrighting
advice right to one person. So [music]
this is your avatar or your ideal
customer profile or your ideal audience
profile. Whatever you want to call it,
it's the exact same thing. Because your
audience, while you do have one avatar,
have different personality types. Some
of them are data driven, others are more
skeptical, some just need stories, and
some need some emotion behind what
you're actually saying for them to
really believe you. And that's why I use
the DISC framework to break down my
audience. The disc framework splits
people into four core personality types
and what kind of proof each one needs to
trust you and your videos. That's why
truth number three is to appeal to all
personality types. Add evidence into
your scripts that appeals to number one
analytical people, number two stories
and social proof to appeal to
influential people, case studies for
more processoriented people, and hard
data and credible sources for your
conscientious folks within your
audience. When you layer all four types
of evidence in your script, that's when
what you say becomes undeniable. Truth
number four, your viewers fear being
left behind more than they desire
getting a hit. So when writing your
scripts, tap into the fear of your
viewer staying stuck. This motivates
them way more than telling them the
benefits of taking the action. So
instead of saying, "Oh, you will grow
your first 1,000 subscribers," you can
be like, "Hey, imagine staying stuck at
zero subscribers, being stuck at 10
views of video for months [music] and
months and months on end." You can see
over here, 1,000 subscribers, while it's
the dream outcome for them, staying
stuck at 10, 20, 30 views [music] per
video feels a lot more heavy. That's why
truth number four is show your audience
the cost of staying stuck. Throughout
your script, highlight what happens to
those who don't implement your advice,
but not in a fear-mongering way. Show
the growing gap between the ones who
move fast and apply versus the ones who
hesitate and don't make any changes.
Truth number five, viral scripts make
viewers feel something, not just learn
something. When viewers feel surprised,
validated, inspired, or challenged by
your content, they engage more deeply
and share more frequently because your
viewers remember how you made them feel
long after they forgot what you just
taught them. In return, the algorithm
shows your content to more people
because it rewards engagement and viewer
satisfaction. So, true five is that
emotion drives virality, not just
information. So before you even write
your scripts, I want you to sit down and
reverse engineer how you want your
viewer to feel by the time they watch
the end of your video. So is it excited?
Is it motivated? Is it scared because
you're doing a horror movie? What is the
feeling that you want the viewer to
have? And then you can create the script
around that. Truth number six, when you
write the script first, then try to
force a hook and title around it, your
script will feel unnatural. It's like
building the roof of your house first,
then trying to figure out the foundation
later. I learned this the hard way after
writing dozens of scripts first and then
trying to figure out a title right
before uploading. And every time I did
it in that order, the video flopped
because sometimes there's just no good
way to package the idea and the script
shouldn't even exist in the first place.
So to prevent you from wasting hours
writing a script that you can't even
publish, truth number six is to write a
title and thumbnail first because your
title and thumbnail sets viewer
expectations. And if you start from
there, it's easier to figure out what
the viewer can expect after clicking.
And then you can write your entire
script as to answer the questions that
the title and [music] thumbnail sets.
That way each line will build on the
momentum of the last and your script
will actually fulfill the packaging of
your video. Truth number seven. Think
about your last Netflix TV show you
watched. You kept clicking next episode
because each one ended right when things
got interesting. The show didn't tell
you what happened next. It made you
crave and want to know. And the same
concept applies to open loops within
your scripts. Once again, when you
create an open loop, don't fully
explain. When you say, "I lost $10,000."
Create that gap and don't fully explain
[music] that because that gap is what
keeps viewers glued to their screen. And
open loops is honestly one of my
favorite techniques in order to keep
viewer retention. Mr. Beast use it, Eric
uses it, and all your favorite
educational channel uses it, documentary
channels use it. Use your open loops.
Learn how to write open loops. And
that's why truth number seven is to use
open loops to pull viewers forward.
Replace your existing transitions. So
now let's move on to the next point with
an open loop to make it your next point
seem a lot more important than the last
or to make the next story beat feel a
lot more important than the last.
[music] Open loops are king. Truth
number eight. You could write the best
script ever. The perfect transitions
killer insights, but none of them would
matter if the viewers zone out halfway
and click away. Every 30 seconds, you
need to reset the viewer's attention
using a bold [music] statement, a tonal
shift, or a pattern interrupt that snaps
the viewer's focus back to [music] you.
Think of it like this. When you're
driving and you start zoning out, what
brings you back? A sharp turn, a horn,
something unexpected. The same thing
happens with viewers. Their brains drift
naturally and your job is to yank them
back. You can see in the third of every
single Mr. beast video, some visual
shift change to rehook the viewer back
into the rest of your video. And that's
why truth number eight is to snap your
viewers's attention back every 30
seconds or so. Because these micro
resets are what keeps viewers [music]
engaged and makes the viewer feel like
the video is moving and that something
important could drop at any moment.
Truth number nine, the most effective
YouTube scripts don't just have words on
them. They include visual direction.
This is called storyboarding where you
add notes for your editors like where to
zoom, what B-roll to use, what clips to
play, etc. Because when you have your
script and your visuals accompanying
each other, they start to work together
instead of the script writer and the
editor fighting each other. When you
give direction for the editor to zoom in
here, play this clip here at time stamp
2 minute 14 or use this kind of music.
This will save hours in editing
revisions because the editor can see
what the vision of your video is. So
truth number nine is that storyboarding
cuts down editing time even though it's
tedious. With a script that's annotated,
your script no longer is just words on
paper for the editor to follow. Now it's
a complete blueprint as to how to edit
the video. And once again, it makes your
editor's job 100 times easier and
faster. Truth number 10. If you're not
using AI to write scripts, you're
working four times harder for the same
or worse result. That's just facts.
Script writing used to take me 8 hours
per script and now it takes two because
there are tools [music] like AI right
now. And that's why I've recently became
a co-founder of my favorite AI YouTube
script writing tool called Subscriber
AI. Subscriber AI is trained on 60,000
plus of the most viral YouTube videos so
it understands what actually makes
YouTube videos viral. And instead of me
giving you my personal script writing
prompts and letting you one by one
prompt it into chat or claude, instead
what I've done is I've taken my brain
and all of my knowledge on YouTube
script writing, my frameworks and
templates [music] and I've put them all
templatized them into subscriber AI so
that you can use them in the click of
one button. Click the link in the
description for a special offer to use
subscriber AI today. So that's why truth
number 10 is to use AI or get left
behind because we all know that the
future of YouTube is AI. [music]
So might as well get in now. Get
familiar with the tools and get ahead of
your competition. Truth number 11.
Videos with high watch time are 2.5
times more likely to appear in YouTube
suggested videos. [music]
And one way to increase your watch time
is through a masterful use of
transitions. And transitions are bridges
between ideas that makes one idea feel
more important [music] than the last.
And without them, your script feels
choppy and viewers have clear exit
points because they don't know what's
going to happen next. That's why truth
number 11 is to master transitions and
you'll master retention. Transitions are
king and they make your video feel all
the more natural. Truth number 12. When
you confirm what your viewers are
already thinking deep down, they feel a
surge of superiority. Plus, they feel an
emotional bond with the person who
validates what they were thinking all
along. The best leaders use this. Cult
use this. Master script writers use
[music] this tool. So, if I tell you
that all of the YouTube growth advice
out there feels broken, if you, the
viewer, actually think the same, you
will secretly feel seen. They'll think,
"Oh, yeah, this guy gets me. He
understands my problems." And then
you're more likely to lean in and
actually listen to what I'm saying. So,
that's why truth number 12 is to confirm
your viewers suspicions. Throughout your
script, you want to validate what the
viewers are already thinking, but
they're not willing to say out loud.
Because when viewers hear the unspoken
thoughts come out from your mouth,
something immediately clicks in their
brain. And this works for Faceless or
personal brand channels, both. So truth
number 13. The only way and the best way
to get better at writing YouTube scripts
is through writing volume. When I first
started my YouTube script writing
journey, I wrote 400 scripts in 5
months. 400 scripts in 5 months. That's
however many scripts in a single day. If
you're actually very intentional about,
hey, I want to get good at YouTube
scripts, and you put in the volume, it
will be impossible for you to get better
at YouTube scripts. So that's why truth
number 13 is volume negates luck. This
is true for posting YouTube videos. This
is true for writing YouTube [music]
scripts. Spend more time writing YouTube
scripts. And I guarantee you, you will
be better in no time. Truth number 14. A
quote by Antoine, the saint exuped says,
"Perfection is achieved not when there's
nothing more to add, but [music] when
there's nothing left to take away."
That's a principle that I apply to every
single YouTube script that [music] I
write. The key when you're editing a
script is to be ruthless. If a word
doesn't add value, it's gone. If this
short sentence doesn't add anything to
the narrative, doesn't add any [music]
tempo to the actual script, I will
remove it. Because the truth is short
scripts with a high value per minute
beat long scripts that are stuffed with
just fluff and nothingness. So truth
number 14 is cut the fluff. Read every
sentence and ask if I remove it does my
script lose quality or value? If not,
hit delete. Truth number 15, vague
claims make viewers doubt you? But
specific information makes your viewer
lean in. This is because precision gives
the impression that you're sharing
facts. Numbers create credibility when
you show that you're tracking results,
not just making assumptions. It's
exactly what mothers do to determine
whether you're lying or not. They will
see if you're being specific or if
you're being vague or if you're doubting
your eyes. You want to be as specific as
possible because that makes you a ton
more convincing. That's why truth number
15 is that specificity is persuasive. So
don't just say, "I increase the number
of leads by 34%." Right? If you increase
your leads from 1 to 1.34, if that's
even possible, that isn't convincing at
all. But if you can say, I generated
10,000 more leads in the past 12 months
because I changed one strategy, that's a
lot more convincing just by a simple
change in the words that you use. Truth
number 16, being perfect feels fake. If
you openly share about your failures and
what you've learned, you'll become
10,000 times more relatable. People on
YouTube don't follow you because you
have the best best best information out
there. Once again, they follow you
because you evoke an emotion out of
them. And one of the emotions that you
can evoke out of the viewer is, "Oh,
this guy is just like me." Because
people learn from people who are one
step ahead of them. And you sharing your
real failures makes people relate to you
and see you as more of an expert.
Because when you share your failures,
your mistakes becomes your viewers's
shortcuts. So truth number 16 is that
vulnerability builds trust. You want to
look at the story that you're telling,
what failure that you can share within
that, and how you can use that specific
failure to turn into a story that can
illustrate a certain point that you want
your viewer to understand. Don't just
share your failures for the sake of
being vulnerable. Share your failures so
that the viewer can learn from you. Once
again, that positions you as relatable
and an expert at the same time, despite
sharing your failures. Truth number 17.
Recall the last time that you made
someone feel super good about
themselves. You might not be able to
tell exactly how they did it, but I can
tell you how they didn't do it. They
didn't do it by shining a spotlight on
themselves. They didn't do it by making
themselves out to be the hero of the
story. When you make yourself the hero
of the story, viewers become passive
observers of your journey. But when you
make your viewers the hero, they become
active participants in their own
transformation. That's why empowering
the viewer and putting them in the
driver's seat is the way to go with your
YouTube content. So truth number 17 is
that you're the guide, not the hero.
When you talk as the guide, it empowers
your viewers to take action. That's
[music] really when you build a
community. But when you talk like you're
the hero, you may impress your viewers,
but you create distance between them and
it makes you a heck ton more
unrelatable. Truth number 18. Your
script is only as good as its weakest
link. Think of your script as a chain.
The first sentence or section gets them
to watch the second. The second sentence
gets them to watch the third, and the
third gets them to watch the fourth. so
on and so forth. If any idea payoff
within your script isn't super
interesting to the viewer, it won't get
them to watch the next. So, if your
minute five is boring, it doesn't matter
how good your minute 6 7 8 9 10 is, if
your minute five is boring, you will
lose retention over there and your video
will just go to That's why truth
number 18 is every payoff must advance
the narrative. When outlining your main
points, put them through this test. For
every minute of your video, ask
yourself, does this create curiosity and
make me want to find out what's next? If
the answer is no, delete it. Truth
number 19. As script writers, one of our
greater superpowers is explaining
complex ideas clearly, but in a way that
actually sticks. And one of the best
ways to do that is true contrast.
Because our brains are wired to notice
differences. So when you show opposites,
your message lands faster and deeper. So
truth number 19 is contrast makes your
ideas stick. create contrast in the
viewer's mind and then they can
immediately imagine the extremes in both
their heads and they'll understand
[music] exactly what you're trying to
say a lot easier. Truth number 20. When
viewers can see themselves succeeding,
they become emotionally invested in
making that vision real. This is called
future pacing because you're showing
them a piece of their possible future.
The clearer the picture that you paint
in their heads, the stronger their
motivation becomes to take action.
That's why truth number 20 is to use
future pacing to make your viewers
emotionally invested. You want to show
your viewers what their life is like
after they've mastered what you've
taught them. So, for example, if I'm
teaching you how to grow a YouTube
channel, right? I want to really paint a
vision for you that it's a lot easier
for you to record videos once you've
mastered YouTube script writing because
all you have to do is sit down, put on a
teleprompter, put on your mic, and then
there you go. You just have to record
your video like that. Easy peasy lemon
squeezy. Truth number 21. Human brains
work in patterns. When you show
something amazing to the viewer, then
something even better after that.
Viewers subconsciously expect a pattern
of increasing value. So they believe.3
will be even better than 2, which is
even better than 0.1. And this keeps
them watching. So truth number 21 is to
use your second best payoff as the first
point and put your best as the second
because this immediately increases
perceived value of your video from the
very first point that you're talking
about. So when you outline your script
next, look at what are the most
interesting points and then put the
second most interesting point as the
first point. But the caveat is the first
point that you give must also be strong
enough and then the point that you give
after must be even stronger. Truth
number 22. You know how other people
know that you are a real expert at what
you do? It's when you can explain the
topic without using complex words. The
more you understand something, the
simpler you can explain it. When you
barely know your topic, you hide behind
jargon and fancy terms. And really,
that's a dead giveaway that you don't
actually know what you're talking about.
I've spent hundreds of hours researching
a single script. I'll look at research
papers. I'll watch other YouTube videos.
I'll look at articles on YouTube script
writing. But I would never include any
of the jargon within these research
papers because the jargon within the
research papers will just over
complicate it for you, my viewers. So
that's why truth number 22 is to
research like crazy and then hide it.
You want to take 90% of your research
and distill the most important parts
into the 10% that you'll actually show
in your video. Take the research and
then write it like you're explaining it
to a 10-year-old. Your depth will still
show, but you're making your depth
accessible to everyone. And really,
that's how the top creators make their
videos just feel so effortless, yet you
can see that they put their heart and
soul into it. Truth number 23. Videos
that try to do everything end up doing
nothing well. When you try to cover
multiple topics, viewers get confused
about what you're supposed to apply. So
the viewers end up learning nothing or
they watch and then they go out and make
the same mistakes. So truth number 23 is
to focus on one big idea. Pick one clear
topic and go deep. A video on how to
write hooks that goes a lot more in
depth is better than a general how to
write scripts video that you maybe go
over each point for a minute. That way
you know when your viewer watches from
start to finish, they will have their
problem completely solved or they will
be thoroughly entertained if you're
running a storytelling or entertainment
channel. Truth number 24. You can spend
20 hours perfecting your script body,
nailing every transition, layering every
evidence, and making every payoff land,
but none of it matters if your hook
sucks. Because if viewers decide to stay
in the first 30 [music] seconds, if they
click away before minute one, they will
never see the rest of your content. all
of your work will be wasted and your
video will just be buried in the
algorithm even though it's just gems on
gems on gems of content just because you
were too lazy to work on your first 30
seconds. A weak hook will kill your
video. That's why truth number 24 is if
your hook fails, your script fails. So
stop spending 90% of your time on the
body. Flip it. Really spend serious time
on the first 30 seconds. Write five
different hook variations. Test
different angles. Make the opening so
strong it feels like it's impossible for
the viewer to click off. Truth number
25. As human beings, we are wired for
survival. We're designed to pay
attention to what could go wrong so that
we can avoid it and warn the rest of our
tribe about it. This is why we can't
help but be drawn to content that
validates our hidden fears, doubts, and
anxieties. Like all of this
controversial content about AI or
anything politics-wise, that's why truth
number 25 is to validate [music]
your viewers secret anxieties. This
makes the viewers number one feel seen
and also feel grateful for you because
you are warning them of exactly what's
on the back of their minds. Truth number
26. When your teaching suddenly stops
and selling starts, viewers feel it.
They put their guard up. But when you
blend them together, your viewers stay
open. That's why your call to action
should feel like the logical next step
towards their goal. So that's why truth
number 26 is to connect your call to
action at the end of the video to their
motivations. So, for example, if you
have a video on how to write hooks and
the viewers just watch it from start to
finish instead of doing a call to action
to them to buy your course or whatever,
what you would do is do a call to action
to another video on your channel that
talks about, let's say, open loops and
transitions. So, that way that they can
improve their retention after they've
improved their retention in the first
[music] 30 seconds. So, you can see over
here, it's much more of a natural next
step for them. And that way you can also
increase their watch time and their
session time on your channel. And
YouTube really favors that. Truth number
27. When you address objections before
your viewers think about them, they
think that you're reading their mind.
They think, "Wow, this person really
gets me." And trust goes way up. That's
why truth number 27 is the best way to
handle objections as to why the viewer
should continue watching is to prevent
them in the first place. List every
reason that your viewer might doubt what
you're saying. So, if you're like me and
you're giving advice on how to write
YouTube scripts, immediately the first
doubt will be, hey, how many scripts did
this guy write? So, I'm going to tell
you, I wrote 1,073 scripts and that
removes all doubts from the viewer's
mind and makes you much more credible
and willing to listen. Truth number 28.
You know those moments when you want to
explain something complex, but somehow
you just can't find the right words and
flow? My go-to solution for explaining
complex concepts is to use metaphors or
examples that viewers already understand
because metaphors transform abstract
concepts into concrete images in the
viewer's head. When you do an analogy or
metaphor that the [music] viewer can
relate to and it's something that they
understand instantly they feel like they
relate to it and this can click
something in their brain because you're
explaining it in a way that they've
never been explained to before. So for
example, if you don't understand the
idea of hooks, right? Let's say you're
completely new to social media and I
tell you that videos with hooks are
showups with no front door. People see
them but can't get in. So, the metaphor
makes this abstract concept of a hook
concrete and visual in the viewer's
mind. And with the right metaphor, it
will click an aha moment in the viewer's
head, which substantially increases
viewer satisfaction. So, truth number 28
is that metaphors are your best friend.
For any complex concept that you're
trying to explain, ask yourself, what is
a metaphor that the viewer can relate
to? And if you can't think of these
metaphors or you're not very good at it,
Chbt or AI is your friend. Truth number
29. Viewers are instant gratification
addicts. You're instant gratification
addicts. That's why traditional
storytelling bores them. They don't want
to wait 10 minutes for one big payoff.
They want mini wins throughout the
video. And without constant payoffs,
they feel like they're wasting their
time. So that's why truth number 29 is
to give constant payoffs throughout your
script. Structure your script like a
series of small problem solution cycles.
Present a challenge, then solve it
quickly. Then immediately introduce
another challenge. And this creates a
rhythm and cycle of constant value. Kind
of like this script. Right? We've gone
through 30 different truths. Problem
solution. Problem solution. Problem
solution. I'm showing you how to do this
in real [music] time with this very
video. Truth number 30. Dumping all your
credentials in the intro feels like
bragging, but sprinkling them throughout
your script creates compound authority.
your credentials packs a punch way more
when they're shared as part of a bigger
story or context because that way it's a
lot more subtle. It doesn't feel like
you're bragging. You're kind of just
mentioning the story and it's kind of a
off-hand thing that's just, hey, I hung
out with this guy that was super
influential. No big deal. It silently
creates social proof in the viewer's
head without them even noticing. So
that's why truth number 30 is to
sprinkle your proof throughout your
script. You can use social proof,
results, student success stories, and
testimonials for these, but of course,
don't include too many. And when you do
include them, you want to subtly include
them so that you can build authority
that way. Truth number 31. Some
sentences look good on paper, but
reading them out loud reveals where they
could be falling short. You can't spot
awkward phrasing by reading silently
because your brain just auto corrects
it. But when you read a script out loud,
you can see the clunky transition, every
tongue twister, every unnatural
sentence. They scream at you. Recording
a test read shows you what silent
reading can't. You hear where you
stumble. You see where your energy
drops. you catch sentences that look
good on paper but feel weird to say out
loud. And really, this 20-minut step
saves [music] you hours later. So,
that's why truth number 21 is to test
read before filming your script. After
writing your script, record yourself
reading it on Loom or your phone, then
play it back so you can see where you
stumble [music] and where it feels
awkward, and you can just edit that out.
Truth number 32. Most scripts just make
random claims. They say things like,
"Hooks are important," or, "You need
consistency." But viewers have heard
this a million times. Without proof, you
sound just like every other creator out
there. So providing evidence for every
point makes it undeniable. And I call
this layering. So that's why truth
number 32 is to layer your script with
different types of evidence or you'll
sound like everyone else. And that means
stacking multiple pieces of evidence for
every major point that you're talking
about. So for example in your video you
can site evidence from a research paper
you can site evidence from a book you
can site evidence from a creator any
source of credibility that you can take
from add that into your video and it
makes your point way more compelling.
Truth number 33 most videos silently
announce the ending of their video to
their audience without even realizing
which makes the audience click off and
then lose retention towards the end of
the video. So saying something like
these are the top five tips on how to
get rich and that's the end of the video
is straight up telling the viewer that
the video is about to end and telling
the viewer hey click off please. That's
why truth number 33 is to always end
your videos abruptly. You want your
viewers to feel like hey like why did
the video just suddenly end and that way
it maximizes your attention and you can
see this Mr. Beast does this in every
single video. Truth number 34. Editing
your own script is so hard because it's
too easy to miss your own mistake. Your
brain fills in the gaps. you miss
logical breaks and you don't notice any
repetition that you make. This is why
even great writers have blind spots.
That's why truth number 34 is that if
you want to get good at script writing,
ask friends to review [music] your
scripts. So this could be family,
friends, any other fellow script writers
or YouTubers. Getting a second eye on
your script is probably one of the most
valuable things that you can do as a
creator to up your game. So if you don't
have any friends, like some of you do,
you can use our trusty AI. Ask it,
[music] hey, where am I repeating any of
my content? And then also ask it, hey,
can you fact check any of the research
that I've done and tell me where I might
be going wrong. Truth number 35. Viewers
don't care about how smart you are. They
care about how smart you make them feel.
When you use complex language, you're
showing off instead of teaching. Simple
language serves the viewer, whereas
complex language serves your ego. I once
saw this quote somewhere that said,
"It's not stupid if you simplify, you're
stupid if you don't simplify." Because
that really is the truth. When you
simplify your complex content, your
content is much more accessible to a
wider audience. And really, if you look
at all of the top business creators, for
example, Alex Moszi, he took one of the
most complex concepts, which is how to
grow a business and all of the
statistics that come with it, and he
packaged that into simple language with
business content. And he made it stupid
simple to understand how to actually
make money online. So that's why truth
35 is to simplify more than you think
necessary. So here's what I want you to
do. Write your script. Read your script
out loud and ask yourself, could a
10-year-old understand this? And if not,
simplify. Replace any jargon that you
have with everyday words. Cut any
unnecessary details that
misunderstanding it becomes impossible.
Truth number 36. Visual mismatch kills
trust. Your opening words must match the
thumbnail promise just as much as the
visuals. If your thumbnail says, "I lost
$10,000 because of this mistake." But
your script opens with today we're
talking about how to grow your money.
You broke the promise that your title
and thumbnail set and viewers feel lied
to. That's why truth number 36 is to
match your opener to your thumbnail or
lose trust. So before writing your hook,
look at your thumbnail and ask yourself
what's the claim and then validate
[music] that claim. Simple as. Truth 37.
Most creators waste hours brainstorming
ideas. They stare at blank pages hoping
the inspiration hits. Meanwhile, YouTube
as a platform already tells you what's
going to go viral. You're just too busy
being creative to see it. Look, ideas
already exist. You don't have to come up
with new ideas. Your job is to figure
out what people are searching for, what
videos people actually want, and then
serve it to them in [music] a way that
is authentic to yourself. That's why
truth number 37 is don't brainstorm
ideas. Steal with style. Sort the top
creators videos by most popular. Look
for patterns. Look for what got the most
views. Then study them to find out why
they did. Check the comments for what
people are begging for, what kind of
content they're begging for, [music] or
what kind of content they are confused
by. Have a look at that and that already
signals what kind of content that you
should make. Super easy that way. And
this principle is the same for your
title and thumbnail or if you're looking
at hooks. Look at what winning hooks and
what formats are already working and
just steal them and apply them for your
niche. But of course, everything is a
caveat. Don't steal anything word for
word. You want to twist it and yoink it
for yourself to make it authentic to
yourself. Truth number 38. So, everyone
asked me, "What is my secret to getting
good at YouTube and getting good at
script writing?" So, previously [music]
I told you I wrote a ton of scripts in
just a few months. Number one, putting
in volume is a huge [music] hack to get
good at any skill. But really, with
YouTube especially, this is one of the
most competitive sports out there. I
believe YouTube [music] to be harder
than starting an e-commerce store or
starting an Instagram page because of
how competitive YouTube is and why
everyone wants to become a YouTuber. And
the reason it's so competitive is
because starting a YouTube channel and
growing it is super lucrative. Everyone
grew [music] up on YouTube and everyone
wants to get a piece of this creator
economy pie. That is just the truth of
it. And if you really want to be the
best, meaning you want to dominate your
niche, give the best advice out there,
make the most entertaining, faceless,
personal brand videos, or whatever kind
of videos that you make, if you want to
make them the best, you need to be
obsessive. That's why truth number 38 is
obsession beats talent. [music] No
matter how talented you are with your
camera, with storytelling, if you don't
work hard and you're not obsessed,
you're not watching videos, you're not
keeping up with the trends, you don't
actually care and are passionate about
YouTube, your videos are never going to
go viral. That's a harsh truth, but
that's just how it works. Get obsessed
or don't even try. Truth number 39.
Everyone wants to feel like they're a
part of something exclusive. When you
frame information as insider
information, which is something that
other people don't already know, viewers
pay more attention. They feel special,
like they're getting access to secrets
that aren't widely available. And this
taps into our inner desire to be part of
the inner circle because we, as humans,
are social creatures. We want to be in
the know. We want to know what others
don't. And when you position your
content this way, viewers feel like
they've discovered something valuable
before the masses catch on. Blair
Warren, who studied persuasion for
decades, found that people are more
motivated by feeling like insiders than
being sold to directly. So that's why
truth number 39 is to give your viewers
insider access. Frame your teaching as
revealing information that's not common
knowledge. Let your viewers feel like
they're part of a movement, part of
something bigger that is about to
explode, and your brand will eventually
explode. Truth number 40, last but not
least, most creators focus on what
viewers want to achieve. a stronger
body, more money, a more fulfilling love
life. But the truly magnetic creators do
something different. They speak to who
the viewers want to become. There's a
difference between I'll show you how to
build a profitable business and
successful entrepreneurs think about
money differently than 99% of people.
The first is a promise on how to do a
profitable business. And the second is
an identity shift. Really, the most
persuasive communicators don't just
encourage people's dreams. They help
people see themselves completely
differently. They give viewers a new
identity to step into. And it's no
surprise why there are videos with
titles, how to reinvent yourself, how to
reinvent [music] your brand, because
that shows a complete identity shift.
That shows a way of being shift. And the
viewer once again feels more empowered
to take action once they've watched that
kind of video. That's why truth number
40 is to speak to their identity, not
just their goals. Throughout your
script, use language that reinforces the
identity viewers want. Show them who
they can become if they follow your
advice.
>> [music]